---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Tidepool"
---

The most important takeaway from the talk of Christopher Snider is that making
projects open source an option any good social project should seriously consider
about. 

<!--more-->

## Tidepool and Open Source

Christopher is the Community and Clinic Success Manager of Tidepool, a
non-profit organization that provides free software tools and services for
people with diabetes. The organization's mission is to make it easier for people
to manage their diabetes by providing a platform for sharing data and insights
with their healthcare providers. 

Christopher shared in his talk how everything that is happening around Tidepool
is publicly available online, with only few exceptions that they have to take as
secret. This is really an amazing level of transparency that we usually couldn't
see even in a lot of other open source projects. 

Traditionally, the greatest benefit for the owner of a open source project is
definitely to attract contributors to improve the quality and reliability of
their software. Christopher shared that this is indeed a great benefit for them,
saying that it is amazing to see people from Germany and many other countries
forked their repositories and created some pull requests for some
customizations. 

But I believe the most important benefit of open source for Tidepool is that it
can earn trust from people, especially their clients who needs to share
sensitive medical data with them. I believe Tidepool is relying more on the fact
that their project is open source than the actual level of community engagement
and the level of views on the things that they published. They are effectively
saying that there are no intentionally malicious parts in their software -- a
strong guarantee that many businesses and organizations trying so hard to
demonstrate. 

Similar to working in an open space as opposed to a private room, open source
also creates a moral obligation for Tidepool's members to behave well.
Christopher proudly says that every tasks, progress, comments are readily
available online. 

Another unintended effect, the one that I really like, is that they are
unintentionally provide great work samples for the public, that can be learnt
and scraped by chatbots or researchers who are interested in areas like business
socialogies. Anyone can stumble on their resource and learn how business
operates. How amazing is that!

If I am a investor, Tidepool's open source commitment is a huge plus. I actually
don't see how any other good projects for social good can be harmed by adoping
this open source philosophy. And the better the project already is, the more
they will benefit by open sourcing. 

## Course Projects Update

This week Jonathan and I were working on some issue that we discovered according
to the `TODO` search in the source code. On the first sight, most of them looks
really approachable. 

But as we try study some of the issues in a deeper sense, problems arise. We use
`git blame` to see the history of the commit and indeed most of them has been
untouched for a long time. However, a lot of issues that we studied relies on
benchmarking on different hardware and lots of machines to demonstrate that the
change make sense. 

For example, we have been stumbled upon a `TODO` which is to modify a hard-coded
constant to make it machine-dependent, just like some other components of kernel
do. It seems to be a relatively straightforward issue to do on the first sight. 
But to actually implement it, demonstration that the change is useful is needed. 

Our accessibility to hardware really limits the scope of what we can do. Yet, I
am still optimistic that we can dig out some further issues that we are able to
complete. 
