---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Overcoming Fear"
---

When a guest lecturer in my middle school recommended GitHub as the "social
media" of programmers and aspiring students, I had no idea what he was talking
about. I was impressed by the idea of a community for coders, so I registered an
account and tried to browse for a few times, but I really didn't know what was
going on or how I could possibly benefit from it.

<!--more-->

## The Hype of GitHub

I asked myself the same question throughout the years. Every time I had
different answers, but was equally confused. I sometimes thought of GitHub as a
cloud drive for my private code, or as a place for easy collaboration for coding
projects. True, these really seem to be important features of GitHub, but they
could hardly qualify as a community as the hype describes.

I saw half-finished Hackathon projects and class projects losing their activity
soon after the event ended. I saw people uploading their coding exercises that I
could not feel too enthusiastic about looking at. Many of them looked like
remnants of the past: they were not attempted to be looked at and did not have
too many people looking at them.

However, this week, by browsing the many project evaluations, I realized that I
had hardly been to the place with the most GitHub users. Each of the open-source
projects there is truly active and operated just like a community. There are
people constantly making suggestions, finding bugs, helping others, and all
sorts of things to improve the project to be in a better state.

This is the kind of collaboration that I could only dream of before, but now it
happens in each of the myriad open-source projects. This is not only that people
are sharing the cool ideas that they have and then done. It's reciprocity in its
highest sense. A coding version of Wikipedia. The Garden of Eden for geeks!

I cannot emphasize it enough. Now, for every online resource I encounter, I try
to search it on GitHub, and every time I can find something (though not
necessarily its source) and the communities around them. Learning and trying to
be a member of these communities is simply amazing.

## Embracing Fear

I came across [this Medium
article](https://medium.com/mind-cafe/the-eight-step-process-to-conquering-your-fears-f984f25aacf7)
explaining the human emotion of fear and how we can overcome it. It's a really
good read and it echoes with my life a lot.

Fear happens frequently in our lives. Procrastination is usually the fear of the
consequences of not producing something good enough.

> "What if this thing doesn't turn out how I'd hoped?"
> "What if I fail?"
> "What if I'm not good enough?"

This explains nearly everything that I want to do, but I haven't gotten started
yet. This also explains the anxiety and pressure, although I believe it's
meaningless to worry about most of them.

The article suggested a strategy called "twenty seconds of insane courage." This
is about clearing one's mind and getting started in the twenty seconds, and the
momentum will help you do the thing that you should do.

I feel that for me, contributing to open source just needs a momentum like this.
It would be easy to feel anxious and even want to give up in my first attempt at
communicating with random project maintainers. But with the courage at the
start, I believe something great will come of it, and I could go a long way.
