---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Building Linux on ARM Mac, Part I"
---

Building Linux is a complex job and many things could go wrong. There wasn't
many tutorials on how to build kernel. Partly because I think people wanting to
build the kernel always know what they are doing, and there are so many ways to
build it. But for me, an aspiring kernel developer, this lack of tutorials is a
challenge. I here would explain my way of building the kernel.

<!--more-->

## Preparation

Many of the below steps are from [Kernel Development Learning
Pipeline](https://kdlp.underground.software/), an excellent program run by Red
Hat Engineers. 

### Step 1: Downloading Virtual Machine Client

Firstly, we need to configure a virtual machine. This would give several
benefits:

- Isolation: Building a kernel involves compiling code and running system-level
  commands, which can be dangerous if executed on the host machine. Running
  these commands in a virtual machine provides a layer of isolation and
  security, preventing any damage to the host system.

- Reproducibility: Building a kernel often involves installing and configuring
  specific software packages and libraries. By using a virtual machine, the
  build environment can be reproduced exactly, ensuring that the build process
  is consistent across different machines.

- Portability: Virtual machines can be run on different host systems, allowing
  kernel developers to build kernels for different architectures and platforms
  without the need to set up a new build environment on each machine.

I used [UTM](https://mac.getutm.app/), an open-source virtual machine software
that run smoothly on ARM. 

### Step 2: Setting Up a Virtual Machine

We need an operating system for the virtual machine. This operating system needs
to be stable because in the next step we need to build the kernel on it. 

I used [Fedora 37](https://getfedora.org/en/server/download/). Choosing the ISO
image would suffice. After downloading the image from the website, we can add it
to UTM and start an instance. 

On the first boot, the system should prompt us to configure users. Here I give
my user root access since I want to ssh into the VM, and sometimes I need root
access. 

Then configure ssh by running `ip -br a`. Note the ip address that is `UP`, and
we can ssh via `ssh <username>@<ip-address>`. The username is what we have
configured in the previous step. Then we can use my terminal to do work in
virtual machine. How cool is that!

### Step 3: Fetching Kernel Code and Building

We can clone the newest kernel by runnign `git clone
https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git`. This might
take a while since the kernel is huge and contains millions lines of code. 

Then I installed dependencies via `sudo dnf builddep kernel`. 

We also need to support a configuration for the kernel. This can easily get
complex. For simplicity, I just reused the Fedora config by running this in the
linux directory that I just cloned: `cp /boot/config-$(uname -r)* .config`. 

Then time to build the kernel: `make -j $(nproc)`. The `-j` options specifies
that we would like multiple processes to build to make it faster. The first time
running this step would definitely take a while. 

And then we can run `sudo make modules_install -j $(nproc)` and `sudo make
install` to install the kernel and its dependencies. 

If all of the above is success, we can enter the kernel using `reboot`. Since
kernel is independent from file systems, all previous configuration would stay
the same, the only thing that is changed after the reboot is the kernel itself. 

Of couse I left out many complexities and difficulties that I encountered. But
this seems to be a great progress!

## Invited Talk

This week our invited speaker is Jim Hall, known for his contribution on
FreeDOS. 

FreeDOS is a free and open-source operating system that is designed to be
compatible with Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system. It was initially created in
1994 as an alternative to MS-DOS, which was a proprietary operating system that
was widely used on personal computers at the time. 

Mr. Hall talks about how he is inspired by Linus, and also want to make a
replacement of the MS-DOS since it would be no longer available. Programmers in
his age needs to involve into the very low levels of the systems and finding
resources much harder than present. It takes great interests and aptitude to get
jobs done. 

So I value this old-fashioned workstyle. Mailing lists, Vim, Emacs, etc. These
tools that persists in history and continues to thrive. 