---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Internet Archive"
---

This week, we had a guest lecture from Mek, a representative from the Internet
Archive. He provided great insights into open source project development.

<!--more-->

## The Internet Archive / Open Library

The Internet Archive is a digital library that provides access to millions of
books, with the simple goal of providing free and universal access to knowledge.
One of their most popular features is the Wayback machine, an online archive of
webpages that stores billions of historical versions of those pages. This has
been incredibly useful for researchers, historians, or anyone curious about what
those pages looked like in the past.

What impressed me the most about the Internet Archive is that it uses
cutting-edge technology while maintaining its legality. Many other organizations
with the same goal of providing universal knowledge are controversial because
they operate outside the legal boundaries and infringe on copyrights, such as
Library Genesis.

The Internet Archive not only provides digitized books for free but also
maintains a one-to-one correspondence between the physical books and their
digital versions. This ensures that only one customer can check out a book at a
time. They remove the book from the shelves when it is checked out digitally,
and their ebook reader automatically deletes the book file after the borrowing
period has ended.

At first, this approach seems to contradict the purpose of digitizing books,
which is to make the marginal cost of producing a copy cheaper and thus make
books more accessible to the public. However, their approach shows respect for
the copyright of the book author and legalizes their behavior. It has made books
more accessible to the public by providing people with reading disabilities or
those who live far away from a physical library the means to easily read books
and acquire knowledge.

This approach is also related to the trend that people are beginning to give
digital products more credit. We readily accept that the cost of some digital
works comes not from their marginal production cost, but from the original work
of the author.

Additionally, I was amazed at how approachable Mek was. He encouraged us to
reach out to him via email if we were interested in contributing to the project.
His hospitality and welcoming attitude make contributing to his projects
enticing. I hope to find more projects like this that are welcoming to newcomers
in the open-source world.

## My Contributions

In the past several weeks, I have contributed to the course website a few times,
commented on classmates' blogs, and added a few entries on OpenStreetMap near my
home.

It always feels great that my contributions are built upon by others. In the
case of OpenStreetMap, another person commented on my new entry later that day,
modifying a field for the building that I added. Although the mistake was on my
end, it still gave me a feeling that my work was appreciated.

It takes effort to make non-trivial contributions, but I am becoming more and
more comfortable opening issues whenever I find something wrong.

Becoming more active in the open-source world takes time. I hope I can persis on
the journey and learn more!
