---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Hello World"
---

I have always been thinking to increase my GitHub presence. It's hard for me not
to envious those people when they are labelling themselves as open source
citizens. Then I always find reasons to convince myself something else is more
important to do at the moment.

<!--more-->

This is not the only case. From a long time ago (probably even before college),
I also wished to create a personal websites, write some blogs, and write cool
softwares with friends. I literally write those plans done a few times into my
sketchy to-do list, but due to some unfortunate intentional coincidences those
plans are always postponed indefinitely.

I obviously didn't expect to be able to finish all of them in a single week, nor
did I expect them actually finished as a part of an assignment. As
if some amazing magic happened, I created my first own website, wrote my first
blog, organized my past GitHub projects, and, as a reward, I polished my resume.
It is amazing to get things done.

Lesson learned? Open Source is great. Yes. None of the above actually is in the
formal definition of open source, but I am obviously benefited from the side
effect of taking a course in it, just in its first week. I am now more eager to
share ideas through reaching out, open my minds by interacting with those
amazing people around me.

I would just like to describe open source as this mindset of sharing and
collaborating from the relatively geeky independent contributions such as
codewriting. It is based on the fundamental belief that people's ideas should be
free to share and use, so as allowing them to build upon each other's ideas to
make a greater progress on human civilization, not just constantly reinventing
the wheel.

The word "source" in could mean anything, not just the source code. So open
source is more about openness: openness to ideas, openness to sharing, openness
to collaboration. As opposed to closedness, openness of everything could be bad
for businesses who monetize on their private and confidential ideas. But even in
the software industry, where the source code is the most valuable asset, there
are already plentiful of companies made their projects open source, such as
[Google](https://github.com/google), [Meta](https://github.com/facebook), and
[Microsoft](https://github.com/microsoft). Their business logic has already
integrated into this openness model, probably by marketing their technical
prowess and attracting talents to make their products more popular and better.

[Git](https://git-scm.com/), for example, is a great example of open source. It
revolutionized my thought on version control. I always finds it makes my life
easier, especially when I gets more deep into it.

I am also amazed by the fact that I am able to use
[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) for so many times dealing with myraids of
issues without actually knowing how it works, for free.

It's hard to imagine what lifes would be like without
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/). I am sure I would have to spend a lot of
time on searching for information, and I would have to pay for it, which would
probably greatly discourage me from learning new things.

I am also really thankful for [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), which makes my
first attempt at creating a website so easy.

I praise such openness that resulted in the collaborative world we are living
in, that strike the information barrier and that allow ideas to pass in a more
efficient way, that provides us with the some of the most powerful tools for
free, and that simply allowing people to friendly and proudly shout out the most
inspirational phrase: "Hello World".
