---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Open Source Business Models"
---

During my summer internship at a prominent tech company, where I was tasked with
developing internal tools, I experienced a moment of realization. Although I
took pride in my work, I suddenly became aware that the efforts of my team and I
may have been duplicated in one way or another within some other major tech
companies. But due to various issues these work could not possibly be shared. 

<!--more-->

## Developers in Business

This week in class we talked about various kinds of open source business models
as well as the common business motives behind them, such as building community,
inproving code quality, attracting talent, driving adoption, innovation, and
reputation. 

Yet, I believe there is also one important driving force that makes more and
more open source projects from businesses available: the desire from individual
contributors themselves. 

I hate to do repetitive works that yields minimal marginal utility. I believe
many others would agree with me. This is why I believe ChatGPT is so useful: it
can save me most of the time spending on those works. But there are still ideas
or products that are duplicative in nature due to the lack of sharing. Companies
and employees are spending so much time on them, which basically translates to 
an lack of progress in the context of the whole human civilization. 

Without getting too philosophical here, my intent is to say that I would be
delighted to see that other people can "build on" my work instead of
reimplementing.[^1]

There are also many other valid reasons, such as developers might be able to
find their work more accessible and demonstrable when everything is no longer
behind the corporate walls. This is especially beneficial if developers wants to
maintain their competitiveness in the job market. 

Taking a slightly humorous approach, another benefit of open source is that
developers can easily outsource simpler tasks by labeling them as
"good-first-issues," which benefits both parties. 

## Group Project Update

It became aparent to me that I did not underestimate my capabilities on reading
codes, but rather underestimate the time that I need to spend to ramp up on a
project in the scale like Linux. I learned a lot of things every day -- a really
rewarding experience that makes me wish I can spend more time on it. 

Linux is dense and assumes a lot of relevant knowledge on the developers, and
even familiarity with the kernel itself before developing on it, which I have
the patience but not necessaily the time to learn every of them. Since we wish
soon to materialize our efforts into submitted patches, we have to do the work
in the "painful way" -- i.e. proceed without understanding everything. 

Luckily both Jonathan and I were pretty successful in narrowing down the scope
from the million of lines of code to our respective tools that we are now
working on. On a closer read, and some tests, I was really able to find some
bugs in error handling. I have already have in mind some of the specific changes
to be made, and am currently testing and figuring out what exactly is the best
fix, which could be indeed hard to find. Hopefully I can get some suggestions
from the maintainer after I have the draft ready. 

Overall I am optimistic on the changes we are going to make. I believe I would
never be able to have such resolution without Jonathan and Professor Klukowska.
So special thanks to them!


[^1]: Note the distinction between work and practice. It is definitely a valid
    approach to try reimplement something when learning, but not that much when
    contributing. 

