---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Linux"
---

For our group project, Jonathan and I chose to contribute to Linux. As a TA for
Operating Systems this semester, I have always dreamed of implementing my own
operating system. Contributing to Linux is an even bigger task and a significant
milestone for this path.

<!--more-->

It is needless to mention the importance of Linux in the history of open source.
Linux was one of the first open source projects to gain worldwide acceptance and
continued to evolve and be widely used. It helped to popularize the concept of
collaborative software development, and many of the tools and design principles
around it later became mainstream open source principles.

Linux still has one of the most active communities, with over 1000 contributors
for each new shipped kernel version. This high level of contribution makes the
kernel evolve rapidly, but also systematically. Any aspiring developer needs to
follow the specific rules of the Linux community, some of which are quite
different from those of many other open source communities.

## Mailing Lists

For example, Linux's development mostly happens not on GitHub, but on mailing
lists. This old-fashioned method of communication is actually very powerful once
one is familiar with it.

Email is a widely accepted medium that can be easily integrated nearly into any
tools, and it does not require access to specialized tools or platforms.

It is also highly customizable. The different specialized subsystems can use
different mailing list aliases, ensuring that messages have a high
information-to-noise ratio.

Probably most importantly, mailing lists provide a permanent, searchable archive
of discussions and decisions, making it easy for contributors to reference past
discussions and decisions when needed. As Prof. Klukowska has shown in class, we
can still see the earliest conversation between Linus and some other hackers
during the very early age of Linux development. This level of transparency gives
a highly traceable record of the evolution of this long-lasting project.

## Branching

While many open source projects usually use a small number of long-lived
branches that correspond to major releases, the Linux kernel uses a hierarchical
branching model, where each subsystem has its own branch that is periodically
merged into the mainline kernel. This allows for independent development of
different subsystems and helps to minimize conflicts between different changes.

In addition, the Linux kernel uses a "stable" branch strategy, where separate
branches are maintained for each stable release of the kernel. This allows for
bug fixes and security updates to be backported to older releases, even as
development continues on newer releases.

The use of this complex branching strategy allows the Linux kernel to maintain a
high level of stability and reliability, while still enabling rapid innovation
and development.

## Our Team

It is wonderful to know that Jonathan has previous internships and many other
related experiences focused on kernel development. So, it is mostly me that
needs a quick ramping up on kernel development. It would be a challenging
process given the amount of code and paradigm shifts, but for the sake of the
project, I believe I should take enough time and effort to finish it.

For now, it would be hard to say about the type and the feature of what we are
going to contribute: it all hinges on my understanding of the Linux project,
which I am about to develop in the next week. The safe choice would be to fix
the style inconsistencies or documentation. I definitely prefer something more
challenging and engaging.

So, contributing to Linux could be another challenge that I have to accept.
Hopefully, by following the rules of the community, I will be able to get
started and commit some meaningful contributions.
