---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: The portrait of a Linux maintainer"
---

When I look at the thousands-lines long MAINTAINER's list in the Linux kernel
repository, I always wonders what does these people look like. The picture that
floats before my mind is always the middle aged-men meeting at the Linux
foundation just as some other research committee -- a picture as naive as
imaging hackers as dudes wearing black in the dark dealing with byte codes
floating on their screen. There must have been some new and young bloods in this
system. The question is, where are they?

<!--more-->

## What are they working on?

As prospective developers, the hardest thing for us is to find something to work
on. We are currently, in some sense, still outside of the community. I can see
maintainers all having their tasks to do, and sometimes even feeling "busy" as
to trying to defer the tasks they have in hand. They have been actively
communicating -- nearly every minute there are some communication happening on
the mailing list. 

Yet, there are still some emails being not responded for a long time. Most of
them are probably not posted in the best place, but still it creates some sense
of intimidation of what we are about to encounter in the next few weeks. 

Given the volume of the current developers, it makes me curious about how hard
it is to find traces of people in the transitioning state from "novice" to
"maintainer". Maybe it is that they all internalized this step themselves
through channels outside of the mailing list, or maybe they got some mentorship
from some existing community members. 

Our job then, is to try to replicate the steps of these successful "transitioned
newbies" and to have something to contribute as quick as possible. 


## What did we do?

Over the past several weeks, Jonathan and I have researching means that can get
us involved into the Liunx development. We have scraped through many different
resources. 

We searched through the issue list. Unfortunately, it is not a great place to
get started. Most of the urgent and easy-to-fix problems always have someone
assigned to them and fixed very quickly. Most left-overs are either too hard to
be replicated (need some special hardware), or most people have already
suspected that it might not actually be a bug. 

So there are three things that are possible with us: 

### Clean up a driver

To the best of my knowledge, drivers are usually written by the third-party
vendors and most of them are exempted from the normal kernel workflows. So their
code are arguably are less scrutinized on. This make it possible for us to find
something to improve upon them. 


### Write documentation

Writing documentation might looked to be the easiest to get started with. Yet
the Linux documentation is full of jargon and technicality, so making sure that
everything is right and not trivial enough for developers could also be very
intellectually challenged. 

### Do some testings and report their results

This is probably the one, according to Linux, the most wanted tasks for kernel
newbies to do. They want new people to test the kernel on a wide range of
hardwares and make sure that everything works fine. This would further make sure
that the system is robust. The trickiest part is probably how to correctly do
the testing, given that we have hardware available. 

Anyway, making no forward progress for a few weeks, I believe the best approach
for us now is just stick to one of them, however simple it might sound to be,
and try to commit. 
