---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct"
---

The increase in scope and collaboration in software development makes it as
social as it is technical. Especially in open source projects hosted on widely
available websites, anyone can stumble upon them and contribute in principle.
Maintaining a healthy and productive environment is a challenge for any project,
and even more so for open source projects in public space. Lots of headaches can
be avoided by having a clear code of conduct.

<!--more-->

To get started with contributing to open source projects, it is important to
familiarize oneself with the workflows adopted by that community. For each
project, there is generally a license, Contributing.md, and Code of Conduct.md.
The license legally defines the rights reserved and distributed. Contributing.md
gives guidelines for the expected contributing pattern for the project. Code of
Conduct.md is what we are mainly interested in this blog - it is the essence
behind the value of the community.

## Code of Conduct

A code of conduct is a set of rules that defines the expected behavior of
participants in a project. It defines the values and principles that the
community of the project must adhere to.

There are some readily available templates for codes of conduct, such as
[Contributor
Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/).
Such templates provide a very general guideline of what a welcoming and friendly
open source community should be for a project. [Go](https://go.dev/), for
example, adapted this template based on its business needs.

In its [code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct) page, it largely reuses the
terms and language from the Contributor Covenant, only adding a customized
message before them to provide several anecdotal scenarios and a slightly
different conflict resolution mechanism.

Go uses "Project Stewards" and its open source program office to maintain
complaints, promising to "investigate every complaint," but not necessarily give
a direct response to each one, using discretion in determining the appropriate
response. This is probably designed to conform to Google's predefined dispute
resolution workflow.

Other projects, such as [Sugar Labs](https://www.sugarlabs.org/), use a
different template for their [code of
conduct](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) page.
There, they include more details on expected behavior in certain cases. For
example, they request that people refrain from updating critical systems during
a feature freeze.

Note that their code of conduct is based on [Ubuntu's Code of
Conduct](http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct). In comparison, these
templates provide more detailed behavior guidelines rather than some very
high-level values that can be somewhat centered around the phrase "be nice."

This week, I also looked into the Graph database [neo4j](https://neo4j.com/).
They also have a [code of
conduct](https://community.neo4j.com/t5/about-the-community/code-of-conduct/ta-p/55505)
page for behaviors that are not limited to contribution, but also include
community communications. I didn't find what this code of conduct is based on,
but I suspect it is probably an original one. Nevertheless, it also provides a
list of detailed behavior expectations with comments and examples.

## Weekly Progress

Aside from working on my first browser extension, I also brushed
up on git rebase, git merge, and pull request workflows. These are commonly used
terms in open source project guidelines for contribution.

I also attempted to create my first issue on Github. It is a typo that I spotted
on the course website. It is more of a dummy practice, but I am surprised to
find that this issue can be picked up and resolved so quickly and involves the
communication between at least three ends.

In the following weeks, I plan to read more in the issues and pull request pages
on the popular open source projects, and try to get a general idea of how
community for open source project works, i.e., what kind of issues does
community member generally working on for open source projects of different
magnitudes.
