---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: My First Open Source Project"
---

To dive deeper into the world of open source and make a real impact, we
created a Firefox browser extension. This not only gave us a chance to learn the
workflows of open source development, but also allowed us to put our skills to
the test.

<!--more-->

## Git and GitHub

I have used Git and GitHub for several years, but most of them are used for
individual or small group projects that require minimal version control.

Open source projects are very different. There could be thousands of
contributors working on different parts of the project concurrently, and
coordinating their work usually requires effort to organize their commits. This
collaborative method needs to work at scale, and this is where Git comes in.

I took some time reading and interacting with how different projects, including
our class's Git intro activity, make use of Git and GitHub in various ways.

I am not a big fan of the design of Git, as some of the commands in common
workflows require interaction with Git at a low-level, making it hard for new
users to understand what Git is actually doing. It can be even more confusing
before the new user finds the workflow in the documentation. However, since it
is widely used, we have to work with it.

Git gives users too many options, making it difficult to get it right. The most
effective way I have found in almost every use case is to maintain a clean main
branch.

1. The main branch should be linear and clean, not the result of a merged
   diverged branch. Every commit pushed onto the main branch should be functional
   and free of errors.
2. These two constraints ensure readability and make binary search in the commit
   history possible to track issues.

We should always use rebase instead of merge. Rebase early and rebase often. The
process should look like this:

1. Clone the repository.
2. If forked, add the original repository as upstream.
3. Work on the local repository at the desired branch.
4. Rebase all local/forked changes on top of the commits from upstream when
   pulling updates.
5. Rebase again before submitting a pull request.
6. Rebase again before finally merging the code into the main branch.

This is pretty much the steps that we did in class, which I find really helpful.
The only difference is that I prefer rebase than merge when fetching changes.

## Our Open Source Project

The experience of viewing PDFs on Brightspace has long been subpar, with a
cluttered layout and limited options. Tired of the frustration, our team decided
to create our own solution in an open source project.

Our goal was to create a simple and lightweight extension that would make
viewing PDFs on Brightspace and other websites effortless. To focus on ease of
use, we aimed to provide a seamless PDF viewing experience with just one click
by eliminating unnecessary features.

Making the project open source-friendly involves going through various
checklists, such as those provided by GitHub. This includes adding a `README`,
license, code of conduct, and contributing guidelines. Some of these checklists
require careful consideration to choose the best options.

I was mainly responsible for writing the code. When brainstorming the project, I
proposed the idea of a PDF viewer along with a demo code that looked like this:

```
var links = document.getElementsByTagName("a");
for (var i = 0; i < links.length; i++) {
  if (links[i].href.endsWith(".pdf")) {
    window.open(links[i].href, "_blank");
    break;
  }
}
```

Fairly simple, isn't it? Looks like with only a few minor modification and we
would achieve our desired functionality. So I happily accepted the coding role,
as it doesn't seem to require too much effort.

However, when I started working on it, problems began to arise. Although I could
view the URL with `.pdf` when inspecting the source of the HTML page, the code
couldn't access it. I discovered that the Brightspace page uses nested iframes,
each with a different source URL. By design, Firefox forbids browser extensions
from accessing cross-origin frames, so I was unable to read the entire webpage
directly. Any workaround would be equivalent to exploiting a bug.

Firefox does allow us to inject content scripts into every frame, regardless of
origin. So I tried having each individual frame send messages to the background
script to report any inside links that correspond to PDF URLs. However, for
unknown reasons, which I suspect to be a feature or bug of Brightspace, the
content scripts were sometimes aborted. This meant that the URL message was not
always received by the background process, so this approach won't work.

So I tried a more sneaky approach of listening to all outbound HTTP requests
from the browser and parsing the links that point to PDFs. This required our
extension to ask for more permissions. We were unable to shorten the URL list as
there was no pattern, even just within Brightspace. However, this approach
worked and gave us a surprising feature: it didn't have to wait for the page to
be loaded.

Finally, we finished our project. It was a great experience. With all the
workflows done, I feel ready to tackle something more challenging.
