---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: The Cathedral and the Bazaar"
---

One unintended and surpising effect of taking this open source contribution
course is that it actually teaches me a lots of big principles and ideas usually
only seen in humanities courses. I appreciate how we dive deep into the history
of open souce, which is almost a short version of computing history. GNU project
and Richard Stallman, the rise of Linux and other open source softwares such as
FreeDOS, the adoption of open source by major corporations like IBM and Sun
Microsystems, etc. 

<!--more-->

This history provide us a great experience pool to draw on. Especially what kind
of initiatives worked and become popular. And why? This is a really practical
aspect of writing software: how to best collaborate and how to make the greatest
impact. 

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar

"The Cathedral and the Bazaar" is an essay written by Eric S. Raymond that
contrasts two different models of open source software development. This essay
is considered a seminal work in the open source movement and has influenced the
development of many successful open source projects.

In the "Cathedral" model, a small group of skilled developers work in isolation
to develop software, keeping the code closed until a stable release is ready for
public consumption. An example of this would be the earlier version of GNU. 

In contrast, the "Bazaar" model advocates for a more open and decentralized
approach to software development, where many developers contribute and
collaborate openly to create software that evolves more rapidly. And example of
this would be Linux. 

Raymond argues that the "Bazaar" model is more effective for developing
high-quality, innovative software because it allows for more diverse
contributions and rapid iteration. 

Indeed, among the most active and popular open source projects currently seen on
GitHub, it would be easy to argue that they all adopt the Bazaar model in some
sense. 

My favourite lesson in the book is "Any tool should be useful in the expected
way, but a truly great tool lends itself to uses you never expected." This
actually connects a lot to the current hype in the Large Language Models (LLMs).
When I was at middle school there is already lots of people working on creating
chatbots, and even one of the middle school mathematical modeling competition
problem is to creating the best chatbot. 

But hardly anyone sees the potential of a chatbot beyond just chatting. When
ChatGPT is released, I believe it was more aimed towards to be an entertainmend
kind of thing. But now, with caution and critical thinking, it could be a great
mentor and a great boost of productivity. 

Although technically, ChatGPT is not a open-source project. But how it appeals
to a wide range of users to test and give their feedbacks is a remarkable feat
in welcoming contributions. 

## Course Projects Update

This week every groupd gives a short 5-minute update on their final project
progress. I am actually amazed on how far each other team goes, and the
different interactions between them and the community. 

Due to the nature of the project that I am working on (Linux), we still hasn't
send emails to the community. But my classmate's GitHub profile, the pull
requests they made, the messages they sent, can give great examples of how to
successfully get into each of the open source community. 

For our part, Jonathan and I have narrowed down some files to be read, and we
also found some great source of picking up issues: searching for TODO tag in the
source code, and looking for those that hasn't been touched for a long time.
There are indeed plenty of those tags and those works seems reasonable for us to
do. 

I am looking forward for our first patch, and I believe it should be ready in
the short future. 
