---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: The Workout of Ramping Up"
---

When it comes to starting a project, or anything, I used to wait. Until I buried
myself in loads of documentations, and I make sure that I understand most of
them, I would not start. This could be a nice approach, though. I indeed am more
informed on what I am doing, and it always feels good when I found something in
the code base is exactly what I have seen in the documentation. I call this 
approach "building a foundation." 

<!--more-->

## Ramping Up

However, due to various reasons, in real world we longer have enough time to
prepare. One reason is the piling up of workload: this semester I have to ramp
up on a new code base nearly every week, amoung many other duties. One another
reason could be the urgency of a project, where waiting could mean missing out
on important opportunities or falling behind competitors. After all, there are
millions of projects to use. If we are trying to read the documentation of all
of them, there isn't much time left to do useful stuff. 

This semester, I decided to try a new approach. Instead of waiting until I have
fully built my foundation, I started working on the project while learning as I
go. I call this approach "ramping up." It is like getting on a moving train,
where I have to run to catch up, but I will eventually get there.

At first, it felt overwhelming. I found myself constantly Googling (ChatGPT-ing)
and searching through documentation while trying to write code at the same time.
But as I progressed, I started to see the benefits of this approach. I was able
to quickly identify areas that I needed to focus on, and I gained a better
understanding of the overall picture of the project. 

The more project that I have looked into this semester, the more that I feel
that there are some standard patterns between them. Building, for example, is
highly standardized. They all involves downloading the correct dependencies, 
ranging from a simple `npm install` to create some virtual environments. Testing
is just a matter of frameworks and engineering, and there are almost definitely
tutorials to follow exactly. 

Overall, I feel like this approach has helped me be more productive and
efficient. I no longer feel like I am stuck in the preparation phase, and I am
able to deliver results faster. While building a foundation is important,
sometimes ramping up and learning as you go can be just as effective.

In a way, ramping up like this is like a workout for the mind. Just like how our
muscles need to be challenged and pushed to become stronger, our minds also need
to be challenged and pushed out of our comfort zones to grow and learn. 

By ramping up, we are constantly challenging ourselves to learn new things and
solve problems on the fly. And just like how a workout may feel overwhelming or
uncomfortable at first, the more we do it, the easier it becomes. In the end, we
not only become better at the task at hand, but we also develop our
problem-solving skills and our ability to adapt to new situations.

I am excited to continue using this approach and see where it takes me in the
future. 

## Linux Development

As the semester is approaching an end, I am on the verge of contribution. I now
nearly have the two patches prepared and ready to submit. The next goal is that
I have to make sure that I submit these commits correctly using the right
approach. Jonathan already submitted some fruitful patches that are
well-received by the community. He has shared with me his approach of submitting
patches and I believe I am good to try a bunch of them. 
