---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: Beyond Open Source"
---

Luckily, before the end of the semester, I finally gets
[my](https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/CAP-5=fWy5AztcN3MZyiNcSkbpdNws0cevarfYwt0TWqhyf3eEw@mail.gmail.com/T/#t)
[patches](https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/20230504220254.54468-1-jinli.xiao@nyu.edu/)
submitted to Linux upstream and a few iterations of version updates has been
made. I couldn't possibly believe that I would have get into contact before this
semester. But as the first contribution is usually the hardest, merely the fact
that my email appeared on the public mailing list was mesmerizing enough that
makes me want to contribute more. 

<!--more-->

## Submitting the Patch

Before I could forget, here are the steps that I submit the patch:

First, set up the `git send-email` in the `~/.gitconfig`.
[Here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68238912/how-to-configure-and-use-git-send-email-to-work-with-gmail-to-email-patches-to)
is a great reference. Specifically, I associated my NYU Gmail account with git
in my virtual machine. 

Then, I need to create the commit. Previous commit messages can be seen using
`git log` or `git blame`. It is especially useful to search within the given
subsystem, or even the given directory. 

Next, we can generate the patch file using the command `git format-patch HEAD~`.
The patch file is exactly what would be emailed to the Linux Kernel Mailing
List. 

We would always want to check our patch on a linter. We may use the command
`./scripts/checkpatch.pl 0001-my-patch.patch`. This would print out any errors
that I may have on the patch. 

The destination of the patch was always my question. There are basically too
many subsystems for a newbie to distinguish from. Fortunaly, kernel has a script
for this! We can run `./scripts/get_maintaiers.pl 0001-my-patch.patch` to get a
list of maintainers. And then we can use something like `git send-email
--cc-cmd='./scripts/get_maintainers.pl --norelstats 0001-my-patch.patch'
0001-my-patch` to send it out. 

Since I always cc myself too, I can generally respond in my Gmail client. One
caveat would be that we need to use plaintext to email to the kernel mailing
list or our emails may be automatically dropped. 

## Reflections

Although I didn't expect to have done this, submitting a patch to a kernel takes
me longer than I expected. The patch may as well be very trivial, but it gives
me confidence to create pull requests in any other open source projects! 

This is indeed a great milestone in my life. I feel both happy and fortunate to
have end the semester with a contribution. 
