---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: More on the Extension Project"
---

To me, contributing to open source has less to do with technical abilities.
Rather, it's more about adopting a particular mindset and workflow that enables
effective collaboration and collaborative problem solving.

<!--more-->

## Our Open Source Mindset

Creating an open source project gives me the mindset that it can always be
improved. The design, code, and documentation that I have written are all deeply
influenced by the goal of providing people who stumble upon them with some
takeaways if they are willing.

It could be that our product (the one-click pdf viewer) is useful to them in
their work and studies. It could be that our comments give people more insight
or clarity into what and how we are trying to achieve. It could also be that the
code itself is extensible, maintainable, and easy to build upon.

I came up with the idea to optimize the Brightspace pdf viewing experience,
drawing upon my own (as well as my teammates') frustrating experiences
navigating through its website. I have also heard the same complaint from lots
of friends, so I believe this project could benefit a lot of people.

We are also trying to prioritize communication during the project. Creating a
browser extension is hard enough. Many different and significant decisions have
to be made within the same week, so we need to keep everyone on the same page.

We committed much effort to maintaining meeting notes, containing all of our
decisions so that we could easily refer to them later. We held several meetings
sharing our ideas and made sure everyone was involved in the process. We also
tried to make our livelog on Edstem as detailed as possible.

It is amazing to see that just within a week, we were all able to commit
significant time to our project. It always feels good to see that every time you
run `git fetch`, there are some new things contributed by others. Progress!

I once experienced a particularly satisfying moment of progress when, after
completing the implementation phase of a project, one of our group members
prepared a draft presentation. We collaborated to enhance the slides, with each
proactively taking responsibility for a specific aspect such as language, style,
underlines, visuals, and more. In less than 10 minutes, we transformed the
presentation into what I believe to be a very professional one.

I also had the opportunity to add a Chrome version of our browser extension.
This should allow us to appeal to a wider range of potential users, including
myself!

## Other Teams

It is also great to see how quickly my fellow classmates created those amazing
open source projects within a short timeframe. I have seen many great ideas and
implementations that are tempting me to learn more about them.

The Youtube Customizer is definitely a great project with great effort. I am
amazed to see how dedicated its members are and how they explored a wide range
of extension interfaces in their project.

I also love the TabColor extension. The example it provides looks very charming
and enticing to me. I love its color scheme. It is one great customization of
the browser that would make it more aesthetic to use. They really showed their
attention to details.
